# Quantum Music

## Description

This app uses data from quantum states, generated with qutip, to generate a series of musical notes in a scale or chord, similar to a random arpeggiator.

## Installation

To install the app, go to the [exe folder](./executables) and download the appropriate file for your operating system. Simply open the file to run the app.

## Using the App

### Input

There are multiple input fields that will affect the sound generated by the app. These are:
##### N
This is the number of Fock states in Hilbert space, or basically the maximum number of different notes that could possibly be played. This should be kept below about 100, because of computation time.
##### n
This is the average value of the state, which means that typically the nth note in the scale or chord will be played the most. This value must be less than N.
##### Music Length
The number of notes to play. This value should also be kept within 3 digits, because of computation time.
###### Speed
Speed of playback in BPM
##### Bassline
There is currently only one bassline option: the guitar part from the beginning of 'Right Now' by Van Halen. This sounds best with the C Minor Pentatonic scale option.
##### Loop
Play the generated notes in a loop. The loop will continue until the box is unckecked or the 'Stop' button is pressed.
##### Scale
The set of notes that the program will choose from. To use a custom scale, insert a comma-separated list of the note indices from the list:
C  0
C# 1
D  2
D# 3
E  4
F  5
F# 6
G  7
G# 8
A  9
A# 10
B  11
For example, a D major 7 chord: `2, 6, 9, 1`
##### State
The quantum state
##### Operator
The operator used in measurement

### Output

When the 'Play' button is pressed, the program will play a set of square wave notes based on the quantum state and the other inputs.

In addition, a graph of the state's probability distribution will be shown.

## Dependencies

The modules required to run [qmusic.py](./src/qmusic/qmusic.py) are qutip, numpy, matplotlib, scipy, and tkinter. These can be installed with
```
pip install qutip numpy matplotlib scipy tk
```
or
```
python3 -m pip install qutip numpy matplotlib scipy tk
```

## Distributions

The distributions in [exe](./exe) were created using pyinstaller. To create a new distribution first make sure that all of the app's dependencies are installed. This can be checked by running the program: `python3 qmusic.py` Then, install pyinstaller and run
```
pyinstaller -wF --hidden-import qutip.cy.brtools qmusic.py
```
in the directory containing qmusic.py.
